###### <p align="right">  By: Claire Wang & Ashley Joseph</p>

## **INTERNET HISTORY TIMELINE** 

> ### **TIMELINE**

- **1950's**
<br><br>The Cold War happened in the 1950s, and the US was worried about the Soviet Union’s growing scientific skills. Because of Sputnik 1 that launched in 1957, the US military was concerned about the Soviet Union attacking from space and destroying the US long-distance communications network. <br><br>February 7, 1958 Secretary of Defense Neil McElroy signed Department of Defense Directive 5105.15. His signature launched ARPA (Advanced Research Projects Agency). This led to the creation of the internet we know today.

- **1960's**
<br><br>In 1962, J.C.R. Licklider, a scientist from ARPA and MIT, suggested connecting computers to keep a communications network active in the US in the event of a nuclear attack. <br><br> He later shared his idea with colleagues at the U.S. Department of Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (ARPA). Work by Leonard Kleinrock, Thomas Merrill and Lawrence G. Roberts on packet-switching theory pioneers the way to the world’s first wide-area computer network. <br><br> Leonard Kleinrock began applying q theory – for evaluating computer communication system. <br><br> Circuit-switching: Circuit switching is a method of implementing a telecommunications network in which two network nodes establish a dedicated communications channel through the network before the nodes may communicate. <br><br> An Internet pioneer, Paul Baran invented packet switching techniques (hot potato routing) that can be credited with playing a key role in the development of the Internet. He invented packets. <br><br> 1966 Robert William Taylor (director of ARPA's Information Processing Techniques Office) hired Lawrence Roberts. <br><br> Lawrence Roberts – his first experimental connection between two computers at MIT Massachusetts Institute of Technology – Lincoln Laboratory. He built the first network. He designed and managed IMP (interface Message Processor) and the first packet network, the ARPANET (the precursor to the Internet). <br><br> In 1967, Dr. Roberts became the Chief Scientist of ARPA of designing, funding, and managing the new communications network concept of packet switching.<br><br>By 1969, developed an early form of routing devices known as interface message processors (IMPs), which revolutionized data transmission.<br><br>Email was created by Raymond Tomlinson and @ was later created.

- **1970's**
<br><br>Early 1970’s, Vint Cerf (co-creator) and Bob Kahn worked the design of the Internet. The Internet is a result of another experiment: Arpanet (Advanced Research Projects Agency Network). <br><br>In 1973, Robert Kahn and Vinton Cerf collaborate to develop a protocol for linking multiple networks together. This later becomes the Transmission Control Protocol/Internet Protocol (TCP/IP), a technology that links multiple networks together such that, if one network is brought down, the others do not collapse. <br><br>Bill Gates (founder of Microsoft) – in 1975 dropped out of Harvard and start up Microsoft with Paul Allen. 

- **1990's**
<br><br>In June 9th, 1992 Congress passed a bill taking the internet out of the exclusive hands from the government and into the public. <br><br>Tim Berners-Lee – inventor of WWW. Tim Berners-Lee and his colleagues at CERN develop hypertext markup language (HTML) and the uniform resource locator (URL), giving birth to the first incarnation of the World Wide Web. <br><br>The Mosaic web browser, created in 1993 at the National Center for Supercomputing Applications (NCSA) at the University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign, was a key development that emerged from the NSFNET. Mosaic was the first to show images in line with text, and it offered many other graphical user interface norms (like the browser’s URL address bar and back/forward/reload options for viewing webpages). <br><br>Eventually the NSFNET modified its acceptable use policy for commercial use, and by 1995, it was decommissioned. Soon, the internet provider model created network access points that allowed the for-profit, commercial side of the internet to be developed. <br><br>1993 almost 90% of computers have Microsoft. Microsoft beat a lot of companies (Lotus, Word Perfect, Borland, Novell, IBM). Bill Gates and Steve Balmer were careful of future rivals. <br><br>1993 - a small group of college students from the University of Illinois explored the new space cyberspace. <br>Rob McCool (founding Engineer, Netscape) & Marc Andreessen (co-creater, Mosaic). <br>Fall of 1993, geeks from Illinois posted MOSAIC online (freely downloadable). <br>Mosaic was funded from Stanford University by Professor James H. Clark (co-founder, Netscape). Clark contacted Andreessen work together on Mosaic. They had a recruiting trip to Illinois to offer the job. <br><br>James H. Clark work with the team of Netscape (including Aleks Totic, Lou Montulli). The Netscape team created the first web browser Mosaic, moved to Silicon Valley, and created Navigator. <br>13th of October, 1994 – Netscape created a new browser Navigator and was launched. Navigator got millions of downloads. Bill gates start the internet war against Netscape. Netscape became the gateway of the Internet. <br><br>Gary Reback (anti-trust lawyer) – 
<br>In 1995, Microsoft offered 1 million dollars for unlimited access to all Netscape technologies. Netscape instructed Reback to alert the Justice department about the American anti-trust law (was to constrain the behavior companies that held monopolies) broken by Microsoft and started the lawsuit. <br><br>Dec 7, 1995 Microsoft created Internet Explorer to fight against Netscape.  Microsoft was being download for free and won the battle. <br><br>Netscape lost the battle and joined AOL. Microsoft next rival was the US government. <br>In 1998, US Department of Justice, Gary Reback, and Netscape accused Bill Gates of preventing customers of using Netscape products. Federal judge issued a final verdict Bill Gates as guilty. The Federal Appeals Court recommended Microsoft company be split up by two. Gates handed over his position to Microsoft CEO Steve Balmer. <br>The war between Netscape and Microsoft unleashed a new generation like Google and Yahoo. <br><br>The dot-com bubble was a historic economic bubble occurred roughly from 1995 to 2000, a period of extreme growth in the usage of the Internet. <br><br>A garage was the birthplace of Amazon. Jeff Bezos (Founder, Amazon.com) – Amazon was launched in 1995, around the same time Pierre Omidyar (Founder, eBay) at the Silicon Valley was creating eBay. In September 1995, Pierre started writing code for eBay. Both founders believe the internet is the place to make money. <br><br>Silicon chip – created by Gordon Moore. Autocatalytic (self-accelerating: making chips denser). <br>Moore's law, prediction made by American engineer Gordon Moore in 1965 that the number of transistors per silicon chip doubles every year. Moore's law. Gordon E. Moore observed that the number of transistors on a computer chip was doubling about every 18–24 months. Mccaf’s law - ? <br><br>In year 1995, Stanford University in Silicon Valley – root of SEARCH. Jerry Yang (con-founder, Yahoo) and David Filo (co-founder, Yahoo) thought of an idea and created Yahoo. Both were electric engineering students and had access to the web to get sports data. They created a directory to show web users of how to find information. <br>In late 1995 Yahoo put up the first banner advertisings. Yahoo proved that they can make money form the web. The web boom has begun. 1996, Yahoo faced challengers like Excite. Excite uses pure software. <br><br>Joe Kraus (co-founder, Excite) – <br>In 1996 at Stanford University, Larry Page (co-founder, Google) and Sergey Brin (co-founder, Google) founded Google (links one webpage to the other). Larry put importance in link counting. <br>Hector Garcia-Molina (Professor of C.S. & Electrical Engineering, Stanford University) – first ever to see how Google works. <br>Vinod Khosla (venture capitalist, Khosla Ventures) – He was an investor of Excite. Offered to help Google by buying/licensing the company. He held a meeting with Graham Spencer (co-founder, Excite). But Excite didn’t bought Google. <br>David R. Cheriton (Professor of C.S., Stanford University) and Andy Bechtolsheim (co-founder, Sun Microsystems Inc.) saw importance of Google and wrote a hundred thousand dollars check for Google.  <br>Michael Mortitz invest Google as well. <br>Bill Gross (founder, Idealab) helped Google with web advertising more effectively with KEY WORDS similar like yellow pages. Google have imitated the Gross’s Overture called Ad-words. <br><br>In 1997, Internet was exploding. Yahoo didn’t have a good search engine. <br>John Doerr (venture capitalist, Kleiner, Perkins, Caulifield & Byers) – <br><br>Amazon IPO took place in 1997. Three mathematicians in California created public key cryptography (encryption).  <br><br>In 1998, Pierre hired Meg Whitman (CEO, eBay) and eBay started to launch its public offering. At the time, the economy wasn’t great, but eBay stock soared valued 2 million dollars.<br><br>Amazon and eBay IPOs made them famous. Became the dot-com boom. The new job day traders (buy and sell stocks) were created. Day traders get information mostly from CNBC. <br>Philip Kaplan (Website Developer) – start a website that effects the dot-com bubble. <br>While the internet was booming, fiberoptics cable had been created (its function is similar to Moore’s code and made importance for the internet. <br><br>1999 had a lot of internet IPO’s and stock was rising. But eBay and Amazon market value had stand strong. Greenspan decided to end the bubble. On black Friday Nasdaq stock collapsed. And 9/11 caused more crash of the stock. <br><br>David Weekly (MP3 Pioneer) + Justin Frankel (co-creator, Winamp) + Cable Sasser (co-founder, Panic Software) + Steve Frank created MP3 (compressing data into smaller digital packets). Frank, Frankel, and Sasser created downloadable media player like Winamp.  <br>At 1999 from Boston, Shawn Fanning (founder, Napster) at Northeastern University created Napster to be able to download music.  In June 1999, Fanning finished hacking up a code for Napster. Hilary Rosen (chief executive, RIAA) – told Fanning that his program is illegal. <br>Howard King + Peter Paterno are entertainment lawyers at Los Ageless. At summer 1999, they saw the problem of file sharing phenomenon on Napster.  

https://github.com/ajnjit/Homework2.git For further reading, of the Browser Wars.

- **2000's**
<br><br>Dot-com bubble crash was in between 2000-2001. A handle of ecommerce companies (eBay and Amazon) survived through the crash. Their company policy put importance of the empowerment of its customers made them survive through the crash. The dot-com bubble crash made huge advantage by speeding up progress of the internet. <br><br>On May 3rd 2000, Napster was being sued by the two lawyers. <br>Hilary Rosen and RIAA filed lawsuit against Napster for copyright. In July 2001, Napster had to be shut down immediately. This lawsuit encouraged Steve Job & Apple to create iTunes music store with strict copyright protection. <br>VIACOM created lawsuit against Youtube for intellectual property law. Youtube was not easily taken down. <br><br>MySpace was created in mid 2003 by Chris Dewolfe, having another website join the battle in technology. <br>Napster received a lawsuit by Hilary Rosen who told them their downloading and streaming of copyrighted songs was illegal. <br><br>In August 19th , 2004 Google held its IPO to public listing shares for sales at Nasdaq sales market. The Google IPO was successful. <br><br>Michael Mortiz (venture capitalist, Sequoia Capital) decided to sponsor Yahoo. <br>In 2007, Yahoo and Google generated billions of revenues and profits. <br><br>Facebook was created by Mark Zuckerburg in 2004. Mark Zuckerberg put importance of the term social graph (all people are bound in a relationship). Microsoft bought 1.6% of Facebook <br><br>At Silicon Valley, California, Chad Hurley + Kevin Rose (founder & chief Architect, Digg) + Jay Adelson (CEO, Digg) are the leaders among the Web 2.0 revolution. Web 2.0 - describes the changing trends in the use of World Wide Web technology and Web design that aim to enhance creativity, secure information sharing, increase collaboration, and improve the functionality of the Web 1.0. Web 2.0 was more improved, starting with the new technological app called Twitter, letting people tweet what they want. The internet is finally more popular and advanced. <br><br>Napster was created by Shawn Fanning, who wanted the ability to let others and himself download all types of music for free. People were starting to blog about what they were doing or about how they felt about a certain topic by stating their opinion. <br>Myspace is similar to Napster. In Spring 2005 Myspace became popular. Tom Anderson (president & founder, Myspace). <br><br>Youtube was bought by google in 2006. It received a 1 billion dollar lawsuit because of the copyrighted content on the website. Chad Hurley is the co-founder & CEO of Youtube bought by Google in 2006. Youtube and Digg believe in the theory of wisdom of crowds. <br><br>Facebook vs Myspace  <br><br>Craigslist (popular online notice board) was created by Craig Newmark & Jimmy Wales (founder, Wikipedia) <br>Wikipedia & Craigslist share the same value of setting the communication free.  

<br>
For video reference, click on ===> "<a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h8K49dD52WA"> :desktop_computer: </a>"


